one of my viewers writes in Jordan
Peterson is smart about a lot of topics
diet is not one of them
period the science does not back up the
eating of a pure meat diet over the past
few months his wife has had kidney
cancer and now liver failure
she's been eating pure meat for almost
two years it's too bad that some of
Peterson's followers are blindly
following Peterson without doing what he
tells people to do think for yourself so
the first thing that happened was a quit
snoring that happened immediately took
one week and I was snoring quite badly
yep so that disappeared in a week and
that was amazing oh that's interesting
and then I had gastric reflux disorder
that went away and then I lost seven
pounds the first month I thought oh I
have psoriasis that went away had
floaters in my right eye which is also
an autoimmune problem that went away I
have had gum disease for thirty years
that went away that went away that's
amazing I'm 55 like my gum disease way
to win I'm down to the same weight I was
when I was 25 Wow yeah no kidding and
I've got lots energy I wake up in the
morning and I wake up that's never
happened to me my whole life dr. Jordan
Peterson is a scientist he's also a
philosopher he's also an internet
personality it seems impossible to
believe that he hadn't done a Google
search before making this decision this
decision to go on a 100% meat diet when
you make a decision of this kind
you're not just rolling the dice with
your own health you're not just putting
your own wife and daughter at risk in
this case even his baby granddaughter
has been put at risk by this crazy diet
fad there's a 100% chance that you're
putting the lives of the animals at risk
right there's only some percentile
chance that this is gonna kill you
whether through cancer heart attack
diabetes what-have-you eating a diet
rich in meat is proven it's proven to
increase your chances of death to put it
that seriously but you know what
the animals the animals on the factory
farms living their whole life under a
steel shed on a concrete floor they
don't stand a chance
ABC News University of Texas study links
meat to kidney cancer that's the sort of
thing
dr. jordan Peterson might have found
right away with the Google Search Search
a little bit further this is the sort of
thing you get intake of red meat and
processed meat that's discusses both and
risk of renal cell carcinoma renal cell
carcinoma what does that mean
well in the first couple senses here you
have explained to you renal cell
carcinoma is the most common malignancy
of the kidney it is the type of kidney
cancer being discussed in this article
globally RCC incidence demonstrates
regional variations with each
standardized incidence rates being about
eleven point nine for 100,000 in
developed areas and two point five per
100,000 in less developed regions boy
huh so wealthier settled sedentary
countries they have a much much higher
rate of kidney cancer why do you think
that is do you think that could be
related to diet the consumption of red
meat and processed meat has long been
recognized as a risk factor of human
cancer wait a minute are you telling me
that a respected doctor sorry a doctor
of one science or another a respected
scientist philosopher and leader of
public opinion like Jordan Peterson are
you telling me that he chose to just
completely overlook the well-established
fact that eating red meat increases your
risk of dying of cancer and to put
himself not just on a diet rich in meat
but a diet that consists
100% of meat that contains no vegetables
at all no bread no fiber no fruit weight
and it's a known carcinogen it's a known
fact in the sciences that this causes
cancer
well I'm skeptical but I guess I have to
keep reading the consumption of red meat
and processed meat has long been
recognized as a risk factor of human
cancer as such meats are rich in
well-established carcinogens such as
heterocyclic amines polycyclic aromatic
hydrocarbons and n nitroso compounds
now I've never said any of those words
out loud in my life before but hey I am
NOT a scientist I do not have a PhD I'm
just someone who knows how to use Google
and you know there's an even more
fundamental principle being put into
practice here if you were to ask the
question how can we be so certain that
meat causes cancer that meat increases
the prevalence rate of cancer that meat
is gonna increase the odds of you ending
cancer one way to answer that question
is because we can look at the chemicals
the Constituent chemicals that are found
within the meat and we can prove that
some of those chemicals are carcinogenic
that they actually cause cancer how do
we know how do we know that broccoli is
healthy how do we know broccoli is good
for you it's the same principle you can
break down molecule by molecule what
broccoli is made up of you can look at
all the macronutrients and all the
micronutrients and you can figure it out
that a diet consisting of broccoli and
beans is much much healthier than a 100%
meat diet many epidemiological studies
have investigated the association
between the consumption of red meat and
processed meat and the risk of our SCC
we are using RCC here to refer to kidney
cancer
individual meat items says that ik there
were positive associations between RCC
risk and the consumption of beef
hamburger and ham salami bacon and
sausage now according to dr. Jordan
Peterson's daughter the 100% meat diet
that they're on is almost entirely beef
I think they do sometimes eat some meat
other than beef but it is predominantly
beef and beef is a proven carcinogen it
is also proven to be a cause of the
particular cancer that is now imperiling
the life Shirin Pearson's wife
the results of this comprehensive
meta-analysis show the consumption of
red and processed meat is associated
with increased RCC risk again RCC for
our purposes as laypeople means kidney
cancer as for the high versus low and
linear dose-response meta-analyses there
was significant heterogeneity across
studies of both red and processed meat
intake in nonlinear models RCC risk
appeared to increase approximately
linearly with increased intake of
processed meat whereas there was
evidence of nonlinear increased risk
with increased intake of red meat yeah
you know a lot of kind warm-hearted
people will say to you it doesn't matter
if you win or lose it's how you play the
game it's hard to say that sort of thing
when you take a gamble and what you're
gambling with his life and death I think
it really does matter to us whether we
live or die I think it really does
matter to us whether we die at 55 65 75
whether or not we have the health to do
things like walk and buy or own
groceries and continue our jobs or
careers or education or whether we lack
that basic on how it's not just how you
play the game well for some people it
seems like like well from massive amount
well I think for far more people than we
know I think people are carbohydrate
poisoning themselves they can't believe
to switch up the verbiage a little bit
with that one if someone were to say to
me it doesn't matter whether you're
right or wrong it's merely how you play
the game someone in Jordan Peterson's
position should be able to take a long
hard look at the fact that he's been
wrong again and again and again and he
should be able to reexamine the way that
he's been playing the game Jordan you're
wrong on this issue and it's gonna cost
a whole lot of lives maybe it's gonna
cost you your own life
maybe it's gonna extinguish your wife
many years earlier than she could have
lived if instead she'd signed up for a
fat diet of a hundred percent broccoli
and beans or any other genuinely
healthful foods we have no idea how many
of your fans and followers are going to
destroy their health and are going to
die an early death because of your
advice but there's an even greater
nearly incalculable number of animals
that are suffering that are scared that
are alone on a concrete floor underneath
the steel shed waiting to die just
because you convince people to get on
this sickening fat diet
you didn't just make the wrong choice
scientifically you made the wrong choice
ethically and you could have at any
point challenged your own self righteous
ignorance and saved a lot of lives
with a 30-second Google search